Jack Cheng
Professor Heck
PHIL 1860
11/3/22
Second Short Paper
In the first lecture of Naming and Necessity, Saul Kripke gives an argument against a certain form of the ‘Description Theory of Names.’ In this paper, I will attempt to give a brief explanation on the description theory of names, clarify the specific form that Kripke is attacking, and finally give a summary of Kripke’s attack. 
Description theory, as a whole, attempts to give an explanation of how names and referents relate. As in, it is intuitive that a proper name such as “Venus” refers to something, but how it refers to something is less so. Description theory explains the how but saying that proper names are actually just descriptions in disguise. So, the proper name “Venus” is actually either a single or cluster of descriptions that uniquely identifies the actual planet Venus floating somewhere out in Space. In short, “Venus” is actually a set of descriptions, and the referent (the actual planet Venus) is the object that satisfies some number of those descriptions.
Given the general idea that names may be descriptions in disguise, one can talk about the subtleties of whether descriptions 1) determine the meaning of the name or 2) simply fix its reference (Kripke pg. 53-54). This distinction was illustrated by Kripke with an example of the length of a meter as opposed to the actual physical object that the meter is based off of. In this scenario, let the proper name be “meter” and the description of it be the length of some physical object in Paris at some time T and temperature C. Intuitively, when one thinks of a meter it also satisfies the corresponding description, and when one thinks of the description one thinks of the meter. However, what happens if we consider counterfactuals such as if the length of the physical object associated with “meter” had actually been a different length at the same time and temperature? Suppose this were true in some other possible world. Would the name “meter” still refer to the same length or would its meaning be given by the new alternative description? 
If one says that “meter” (in the sense that people use it in our world) refers to a different length, as the description of the meter is now different, then we say that the description gives meaning to the name. As in, the description itself determines the meaning of the name. If one says that “meter” (again from our perspective) means the same in both worlds, then we say that the descriptions merely helped fix the reference. The descriptions do not directly define “meter” but simply help us pinpoint its reference. 
In the course of Lecture I, Kripke assumes that description theory is synonymous with the idea that descriptions give the meaning of names. Yet, Kripke says that this form of description theory cannot hold as as names are rigid designators. Rigid designators, as Kripke puts them, designate the same thing in all possible worlds. The example that Kripke gives is the name Nixon. However and whatever counterfactuals one may come up with relating to Nixon in other possible worlds, the name “Nixon” will always designate the same “Nixon” who was in our world. So, the answer to a question such as, “Would Nixon still be Nixon if he had not won the presidency?” is yes since Nixon refers to the same person in all other possible worlds. Given this, it is simply a matter of connecting the dots to see that if descriptions gave the meaning of names, this would lead to a contradiction, as the names would have different referents in other possible worlds where the descriptions are different. 
Note that this entire argument rests upon the premise that names are rigid designators. For example, in our scenario with Nixon, it rests upon the assumption that Nixon does indeed refer to the same Nixon in all other possible worlds. In other words, this is a necessary truth. 
Kripke puts a particular emphasis on the distinction between necessity and a priori truths. Necessary truths can be thought of as true in all possible worlds. For example, all prime numbers greater than 2 are odd. In all worlds, prime numbers greater than 2 must be odd by construction, or else they would be divisible by 2 and not be prime. A priori truths do not have to be true in all worlds. A priori is simply an “epistemic adverb” (Heck 2022): it is simply whether one can deduce a truth without having any external experience. For example, in our world, the angles in a four sided regular polygon add up to 360 degrees is an a priori truth. In a different world, however, where perhaps non-Euclidean geometry is the norm, this is not an a priori truth. 
These distinctions are important because they are the building block of Kripke’s analysis of other possible worlds. Although certain things may seem a priori in our world, that does not mean they are necessary. However, Kripke asserts it is necessary, by the inherent construction of other worlds, that names are rigid designators. As a result, names being rigid designators imply that the description theory of names where a single description gives meaning to a name has to be false. The interpretation of description theory whereby a cluster of descriptions determines a name is addressed by Kripke in Lecture II.

